now on Al jazer is Adnan Abu hasna who
is the media advisor for unra that's the
UN Agency for Palestinian refugees he
joining us from Cairo thank you very
much for your time uh Mr Adnan Israel
Israel as we mentioned they not only
blocking Aid getting into Gaza they're
also targeting people trying to access
the little the little food that's
managed to get into the territory just
talk to us about the difficulties right
now for people in Gaza to get anything
to eat
yes we are talking about hundreds of
thousands of gazen that are actually
Starving in the northern part of the
Gaza Strip and the Gaza City so what we
are seeing there that you know pushing
people to do things that you know they
never had done before like you know
gathering with t of thousands of people
waiting for the trucks to get into Gaza
City and there is you know there is no
police
there is no actually no system there
that they can protect you know the the
convoys and on the other hand in many
times the Israeli forces they you know
they open fire you know at many many of
the people and many had been died and
injured you know in some occasions you
know in the northern part of Gaza Strip
yeah we we've reported also on people
now leaving Northern Gaza because
there's no food there wfp has suspended
food deliveries uh to the North and the
last time unra your agency was able to
make deliveries to the north was last
month so you know what are people there
relying on how are they able to survive
and those who make it to the South are
they finding enough Aid in that
area they're finding nothing actually
they are really starving even you know
animals food they're not there anymore
they tried to use it for a while but now
everything a gun actually there is not
even you know food for animals that the
the Palestinians in many places they you
know trying to maneuver around that and
to make you know some bread from it but
now there's no more something like that
and uh we are communicating with people
contacting people there and they are
telling us that they are starving and
you know family or family Bread Winners
actually they stopped you know eating
and know to allow their kids to eat you
know one meal you know in 24 hours or 48
hours and we are afraid that people
there will start dying because of uh you
know they have nothing to eat actually
yeah a s situation really you mentioned
some of the obstacles to deliveries but
at the same time we've seen that the
flow of Aid um has reduced sharply in
the last few days why is that the case
that in the last few days the flow has
has reduced
considerably yeah unfortunately you know
that the number of trucks that Israel
allowed you know to get into gaza's STP
this month is nearly 50% of of the
tracks that had been allowed in in the
last in the last month and it it
resulted you know actually that many
people they don't have you know enough
food even we we we we don't know how to
distribute you know uh some trucks that
getting into Gaza that we have now the
average of trucks that getting into Gaza
80 trucks and among them you find water
and medicine and we are the remain body
in the Gaza Strip the only body who is
responsible for Distributing you know
food and water and Medicine in the Gaza
Strip they ask us to distribute 50
trucks or 60 trucks to 2.3 million
Palestinians on all over the Gaza Strip
so it's normal it's normal
that there is a reduction in flour
reduction in in everything not only in
food cans and and in water and
everything Mr Adan abasa let me ask you
a final question there is a lot of talk
right now about a possible ceasefire the
Americans have mentioned this before um
the start of the holy month of Ramadan
which of course is a month of fasting
for Muslims and you wonder how Muslims
in Gaza the people of Gaza can fast on
under the circumstances they're living
in today how hopeful are you that this
ceasefire could happen and how much do
you think it will alleviate the
situation in the near
term if there is a real Seas fire and
opening really a humanitarian Corridor
to get to get the aid into Gaza Strip
and in the north and Israel should open
other Crossing Point Israel has you know
seven crossing points with the Gaza
Strip it's not only RAF and and Kim
Shalom or k Abu Salam they have to open
other Crossing points and to push all
the assistant and the food in into the
Gip and to allow us and allow us to
reach to all places and to accelerate
the mechanism of you know tracks
inspection actually which is very slow
and you know now they are talking about
thousands of facts on the Egyptian side
because the mechanism that is the tools
that had been used by the Israeli
Authority you know to inspect the tracks
it's unbelievable it does not work so
they have to change all the mechanism
and to allow us to get into all places
to reach all the population and we
believe in Ramadan there is there is a
chance there is a window with with a
real ceas fire thank you so much for
talking to us Adnan Abu Hasa from unra
the Agency for Palestinian refugees
joining us there from Cairo